# CodeLab
Forest fires can have multiple engenderers including lighting and thunder, unauthorized human exercises, and unrestrained fire projects. In addition to precautions, quick detection, immediate communication, and prompt response are critical to keeping losses to life and property at bay. This work presents Sybil-secured Smart Forest Fire Surveillance based on Blockchain Technology. This work encompasses a detailed three-layer architecture consisting of IoT Layer (sensors planted in the forest), Fog Layer (a decentralized network of fog nodes), and Cloud Layer (Blockchain-based cloud storage capable of computations, decision making, and forecasting). Further, a Blockchain technology-based framework for secured and Sybil-protected data transmission in wildfire scenarios is proposed here. Moreover, an energy-efficient Blockchain consensus algorithm has also been designed and implemented here. Numerous QoS metrics have been considered and used for the evaluation of the proposed system. This work opens the gate to a vista of further research for secure data transmission in wildfire scenarios.
The major contributions of the paper are:

    i. Designing a Blockchain-based three-layer architecture for smart forest fire detection system which establishes a trusted decentralized environment during data communication.
    ii. Detecting Sybil nodes in the network to provide end-to-end security for data sharing and communication.
    iii. A novel energy-efficient and IoT compatible consensus algorithm to validate the blocks of the blockchain nodes belonging to the fog layer of the proposed architecture.
#CiteUS: 
Datta, S., Kumar, S., Sinha, D. and Das, A.K., 2022. BSSFFS: Blockchain-based sybil-secured smart forest fire surveillance. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing, 13(5), pp.2479-2510.
